in this video let us discuss about Stack overflow in
Recursion
Stack Overflow is the most frequent issue in Recursion
and it will result in programme crash
Let us see what is stack overflow and how can
be avoided
As we have learned all the function calls are stored
in stack for its execution
After the functions execution it will be removed from the
stack
But the stack can hold only finite number of function
calls let us say n which means the stack has
the capacity to hold n function calls and when the
number of function call exceeds n it is called stack
overflow in Recursion every recursive call will be
pushed into the stack for execution
So in recursion
There are many chances that it can overflow the stack
Let us understand it with examples
The first case is if there is no base case in
a recursive function though will be infinite function
calls and it will cost stack overflow
so let us removed the base case from this factorial
function
So now what will happen if we take n as
five then the recursive calls will be 543210
minus one minus two etcetera etcetera
It will never end so at some point in time
it will overflow the stack memory
so stack overflow issue will happen here and the
programme will crash the second case
when stack overflow can happend is and a recursive call doesn't
aligned towards the base case
Let us see how Let's modify the recursive call to
factorial of n plus one instead of factorial
of n minus one
Now what will happen if we take n as five
The recursive calls will be 6789
etc
and it will never reach the base case n less than
or equal to one and it will never end
which will eventually overflow the stack and result in programme
crash
So to avoid stack overflow we need to design the
recursive function carefully with proper base case and recursive call.